malt(1) -- A memory profiling tool
==================================

## SYNOPSIS

`malt` [MALT_OPTIONS...] {YOUR_PROGRAM} [YOUR_OPTIONS]

## DESCRIPTION

MALT is a memory profiling tool wrapping your system memory allocation and applying
backtrace on each call. It will provide you a memory allocation profile which can 
be viewed with malt-webview(1).

MALT work out of the box but to profiling your application it might be better to compile
it with debug symbols (`-g`) and also to disable inlining to get more accurate stacks 
(`-O0` or `-fno-inline`).

## OPTIONS

 * `-c`, `--config`: 
   Provide a config file as parameters with formats described in the next part
   of this manpage. You can also get a dump of the default configuration with `-d`.
 * `-s`, `--stack`:
   Select the stack tracking mode to use. It can be `backtrace` (default) to use the
   backtrace function from glibc. If you compile with libunwind you can also use the 
   libunwind function with `libunwind` in place of glibc backtrace. It fix some bugs
   with programs compiled with Intel compiler or using Intel libraries (like Intel OpenMP).
   But it as a side effect as libunwind as an internal memory leak. The other approach
   is to instrument your code with `-finstrument-function` and in this case you need
   to use the `enter-exit` to use it.
 * `-q`, `--quiet`:
   Make MALT silent to avoid mixing with default output of your program. Useful if
   you use the output to feed a script.
 * `-v`, `--verbose`:
   Add more infos about MALT running.
 * `-d`, `--dumpconfig`:
   Dump the current MALT configuration in a file with the same name as profile file.
   It helps for quick start in the configuration by getting all the options and default value.
 * `-o`:
   Permit to pass some specific options from the config file in the command line.
   The value is a list of options separated by commas and formatted like `SECTION:NAME=VALUE`.
   See the configuration file format (INI format) to find the available sections and names.
 * `--mpi`:
   Enable MPI support to name the output files with rank IDs instead of process IDs.
   MALT will LD_PRELOAD the library bridge from `~/.malt/libmaltmpi.so`.
 * `--prep-mpi`:
   Build the MPI bridge library : `~/.malt/libmaltmpi.so`. MALT requires it to get access
   to MPI_Comm_rank function depending on your MPI implementation. You need to do this
   command each tome you switch your MPI implementation.
 * `-h`, `--help`:
   Display help message with a list of available command line options.

## USING ON MPI APPLICATIONS

MALT natively provides a lightweight support of MPI applications. Each process is tracked separately
but MALT can help by numbering the output files with the task rank instead of process ID.
To get this, you need to compile a small wrapper adapted to your current MPI implementation.
You need to do it once :

 malt --prep-mpi [mpicxx]

Then take care of using the `--mpi` option on the profiling tool :

 mpirun malt --mpi ./you_program

## GET THE GUI

With MALT you can use direcly `kcachegrind` if you enable the valgrind compatible format in configuration
(output:callgrind). But by default MALT will generate a JSON file to be used with malt-webview(1).

## CONFIGURATION FILE

You can get an example of this config file with `-d` option and setup the config file to use with `-c` one.
The config file use INI format with sections and variables as in this example :

	[time]
	enabled                        = true
	points                         = 512 
	linear_index                   = false

	[stack]
	enabled                        = true
	mode                           = backtrace
	resolve                        = true
	libunwind                      = false
	skip                           = 4

	[output]
	name                           = malt-%1-%2.%3
	lua                            = false
	json                           = true
	callgrind                      = false
	indent                         = true
	config                         = true
	verbosity                      = default
	stack-tree                     = false
	loop-suppress                  = false

	[max-stack]
	enabled                        = true

	[distr]
	alloc-size                     = true
	realloc-jump                   = true

	[trace]
	enabled                        = false

	[info]
	hidden                         = false

	[filter]
	exec                           = 
	childs                         = true
	enabled                        = true

	[dump]
	on-signal                      = 
	after-seconds                  = 0

The `time` section support :

 * `enabled`:
   Enable support of tracking state values over time to build time charts.
 * `points`:
   Define the number of points used to discretized the execution time of the application.
 * `linear_index`:
   Do not use time to index data but a linear value increased on each call (might be interesting
   not to shrink intensive allocation steps on a long program which mostly not do allocation over the run.

The `stack` section support :

 * `enabled`:
   Enable support of stack tracking.
 * `mode`:
   Override by `-s` option from the command line, it set the stack tracking method to use. See `-s` documentation
   for more details.
 * `resolve`:
   Enable symbol resolution at the end of execution to extract full names and source location if debug options
   is available.
 * `libunwind`:
   Use linunwind backtrace method instead of the one from glibc.
 * `skip`:
   In backtrace mode, the backtrace is called inside our instrumentation function itself called by malloc/free....
   In order to skip our internal code we need to remove them. But on some compilers or distros, inlining and LTO
   configuration make wrong detection. This can be fixed by playing with this value to keep malloc/free/calloc
   as leaf for every calltree extracted by MALT.
   If you don't see malloc as leaf, you should increase this value. Decrease if you start to see MALT internal
   function inside.
   Notice in some cases (Gentoo, Gcc-8) we start to see LTO trashing totaly the malloc/free call in O3 mode 
   normaly seen via backtrace. There is currently no other solution except recompiling in O0/O1 to avoid
   or maybe disable LTO optimizations or consider not having the exact location of the malloc itself.

The `output` section support :

 * `name`:
   Define the name of the profile file. %1 is replaced by the program name, %2 by the PID or MPI rank and %3 by extension.
 * `lua`:
   Enable output in LUA format (same structure as JSON files but in LUA).
 * `json`:
   Enable output of the default JSON file format.
 * `callgrind`:
   Enable output of the compatibility format with callgrind/kcachegrind. Cannot contain all data but can be used
   with compatible existing tools.
 * `indent`: 
   Enable indentations in the JSON/LUA files. Useful for debugging but generate bigger files.
 * `config`:
   Dump the config INI file.
 * `verbosity`:
   Set the verbosity mode of MALT. By `default` it print at start and end. You can use `silent` mode to disable any ouptput for 
   example if you instrument shell script parsing the output of child processes. You can also use `verbose` to have more 
   debugging infos in case if does not work as expected, mostly at the symbol extraction step while dumping outputs.
 * `stack-tree`:
   Enable storage of the stacks as a tree inside the output file. It produces smaller files but require conversion
   at storage time and loading time to stay compatible with the basic expected format. You can use this option
   to get smaller files. In one case it lowers a 600 MB file to 200 MB to give an idea.
 * `loop-suppress`:
   Enable recursive loop calls to remove them and provide a more simplified equivalent call stack. It helps
   to reduce the size of profiles from applications using intensively this kind of call chain. In one case it lowers
   file from 200 MB to 85 MB. It can help if nodejs failed to load the fail because of the size. This parameter
   can also provide more readable stacks as you don't care to much how many times you cycle to call loops you
   just want to see one of them.

The `max-stack` section support:

 * `enabled`:
   Enable or disable the tracking of stack size and memory used by functions on stacks 
   (require  `--finstrument-function` on your code to provide data).

The `distr` section support:

 * `alloc-size`:
   Generate distribution of the allocated chunk size.
 * `realloc-jump`:
   Generate distribution of the realloc size jumps.

The `trace` section support:

 * `enabled`:
   Enable or disable the tracing (currently not used by the GUI, work in progress).

The `info` section support:

 * `enabled`:
   Enable hiding execution information. This option remove some possibility sensitive information
   from the output file, like executable names, hostname and command options. It is still recommended
   taking a look at the file for example to replace (sed(1)) the paths which might also be removed.
   This option target some companies which might want to hide their internal applications when exchanging
   with external partners.

The `filter` section support:

 * `exe`:
   Enable filtering of executable to enable MALT and ignore otherwise. By default empty value enable
   MALT on all executable.
 * `childs`:
   Enable instrumentation of children processes or not. By default instruments all.
 * `enabled`:
   Enable profiling by default. Can be disable to be able to activate via C function call in the app 
   when you want.

The `dump` section permit to dump the profile whenever you want:

 * `on-signal`:
   Will dump on given signal. Can be on or comma separated list of: `SIGINT`, `SIGUSR1`, `SIGUSR2`, ...
   Notice profiling will currently stop from this point app will continue without profiling.
   To be fixed latter.
   You can get the list of availble list by using `help` or `avail` in place of name.
 * `after-seconds`:
   Will dump profile after X seconds.
   Notice profiling will currently stop from this point app will continue without profiling.
   To be fixed latter.

## ENVIRONMENT

You can also directly LD_PRELOAD the MALT library in your program if the wrapper script has some issues for you.

 LD_PRELOAD={PREFIX}/lib/libmalt.so {YOUR_PROGRAM}

In that case you can setup some environment variables to configure MALT :

 * `MALT_CONFIG`:
   Define the configuration file to use (equivalent of `-c` option).
 * `MALT_STACK`:
   Define the stack mode to use (equivalent of `-s` option).
 * `MALT_OPTIONS`:
   List of options to transmit to MALT (equivalent of `-o` option, see its documentation for format).

## ON SUB-PART OF YOUR PROGRAM

If you run on a really big program doing millions of allocation you might get a big overhead, and maybe
you are just interested in a sub-part of the program. You can do it by including `malt/malt.h` in
your files and use `maltEnable()` an `maltDisable()` to controle MALT on each thread. It is also a nice
way to detect leaks of sub-parts of your code.

	#include <malt/malt.h>

	int main() 
	{
		maltDisable();
		//ignored
		malloc(16);
	
		maltEnable();
		//tracked
		malloc(16);
	}

You will need to link the `libmalt-controler.so` to get the default fake symbols when not using MALT.
You can also just provide the two empty functions in your own dynamic library (not static).

If you have some allocation not under your control before your first call you can disable MALT by default
on threads using the `filter:enabled` option, then enable it by hand.

## VERSION

   This is the manpage of MALT version 1.2.2.

## SEE ALSO

malt-webview(1), malt-qt5(1), malt-passwd(1)
