malt-webview(1) -- Webserver for the MALT web GUI
=================================================

## SYNOPSIS

`malt-webview` [OPTIONS] -i {malt-profile.json}

## DESCRIPTION

The MALT web GUI is hosted by a nodeJS script managed by `malt-webview` command. It will
by default open a socket listening on `localhost` and port `8080` so reachable with address
http://localhost:8080.

## OPTIONS

 * `-i`, `--input-file`:
   This option is required and provide the input profile file (json format) to explore.
 * `-n`, '--no-auth':
   Disable usage of HTTP authentification to secure the pages of the GUI. Caution, all the
   users connected on the machine can access the GUI so to your code.
 * `-o`, `--override`:
   If you copy a profile file from a remote machine to your local one, your code might
   be stored into another place (not same user, not same path). Thanks to override options
   you can alias some paths to make it transparent to the GUI and be able to find your
   source code. The format is *src_path1:dest_path1,src_path2,dest_path2*. The easiest use
   is to override the root directory of your project.
 * `p`, `--port`:
   Force to use another port than default 8080.
 * `version`:
   Display the current version of MALT you are using.
 * `-H`, `--host`:
   Permit to provide the host to listen on if not want default one (localhost).
 * `-h`, `--help`:
   Display a short help message to summarize the available options.

## ENVIRONMENT

 * `MALT_NODEJS`:
   Can be setup to tel which nodeJS to use if the script cannot find it by itself.

## REMOTE USAGE THROUGH SSH

On clusters you might be interesting by launching the `malt-webview` remotly and forward
it through ssh to get it on your local machine. You can achieve this port redirection with
ssh options :

 ssh {YOUR_HOST} -L 8080:localhost:8080

Where the first 8080 is the local port and the second one the remote.

## VERSION

   This is the manpage of MALT version 1.2.2.

## SEE ALSO

malt-passwd(1), malt-qt5(1) , malt(1)
